README.md, before:

# Movie Industry Insights

## Authors
Miles Cumiskey: https://github.com/mcumiskey

Mike Hanson: https://github.com/gjimmyq

## Overview
Presentation Link: 

## Project Structure 
```
├── Presentations
│   ├── github.pdf
│   └── Phase_2_movie_project.pdf
├── data
│   ├── ~$movies_oscars_plots.xlsx
│   ├── bom.movie_gross.csv.gz
│   ├── im.db.zip
│   ├── movies_oscars_plots.xlsx
│   ├── oscar_data.zip
│   ├── the_oscar_ward.csv
│   ├── tmdb.movies.scv.gz
│   └── tn.movie_budgets.csv.gz
├── .DS_Store
├── .gitignore
├── README.md
└── film_EDA
```

## Business Understanding

Our clients have decided to create a new movie studio, but they don’t know anything about creating movies. 

We were charged with exploring what types of films are currently doing the best at the box office. 

With that information, we needed to provide actionable insights for the new movie studio to decide what type of films to create.

## Data Understanding and Analysis
https://www.imdb.com/

https://www.boxofficemojo.com/

https://www.themoviedb.org/

https://www.the-numbers.com/

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/unanimad/the-oscar-award

To provide a well-rounded analysis we used data from prominent film review websites. We additionally added data from Oscar Winners to provide insight on what movies are gaining critical acclaim. 

## Conclusions

A larger budget does not correlate to a higher return on investment or more academy awards. Therefore, as a new studio we can focus on creating films within a lower budget first. 

Horror and Thriller movies are the genres that provide the greatest return on investment. 

## Next Steps

Quality Index of Box Office Films.

Which staff should you pick for oscar wins? 

Ideal movie release dates.

Commit message:

Update README.md with data science details and visualizations.

README.md, after:

# Movie Industry Insights

## Authors
Miles Cumiskey: https://github.com/mcumiskey

Mike Hanson: https://github.com/gjimmyq

## Overview
Presentation Link: 

## Project Structure 
```
├── Presentations
│   ├── github.pdf
│   └── Phase_2_movie_project.pdf
├── data
│   ├── ~$movies_oscars_plots.xlsx
│   ├── bom.movie_gross.csv.gz
│   ├── im.db.zip
│   ├── movies_oscars_plots.xlsx
│   ├── oscar_data.zip
│   ├── the_oscar_ward.csv
│   ├── tmdb.movies.scv.gz
│   └── tn.movie_budgets.csv.gz
├── .DS_Store
├── .gitignore
├── README.md
└── film_EDA
```

## Business Understanding

Our clients have decided to create a new movie studio, but they don’t know anything about creating movies. 

We were charged with exploring what types of films are currently doing the best at the box office. 

With that information, we needed to provide actionable insights for the new movie studio to decide what type of films to create.

## Data Understanding and Analysis
https://www.imdb.com/

https://www.boxofficemojo.com/

https://www.themoviedb.org/

https://www.the-numbers.com/

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/unanimad/the-oscar-award

To provide a well-rounded analysis we used data from prominent film review websites. We additionally added data from Oscar Winners to provide insight on what movies are gaining critical acclaim. 

## Data Science Steps
Original data sources were imported into notebook. For IMDB this entailed extraction of various tables from SQL databases into two dataframes: IMDB People and IMDB Movies. All other data soruces (BOM, TMDB, TN and Oscars) were in CSV or TSV format and could be directly read in as dataframes.

The first steps consisted of creating more exhaustive dataframes. First we joined IMDB Movies with the TMDB. Next we joined BOM and TN. These two sets were then combined with each as Movie DB. Movie DB was merged with our Oscar dataset to create Movies Oscars. The was our primary dataset that was used for multiple subsequent manipulations to address a variety of questions. For instance, it was combined with the IMDB People table to provide a wholistic set of people involved in each movie. Another branch from this critical intermediate dataset was to group by genre to understand how different genres performed in the market.

Another step to carry out to gnerate certain plots and regressions was the removal of nulls from intermediate dataframes, which was done as needed.

Lastly, the Statsmodel module in Python was used to regress quantitative variables upon each other to test for correlation. This was done for dataframes that existed at various timepoints over the course of the project.

## Major Visualizations and Associated Conclusion

<img width="944" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b85b3d7-1923-490a-8a71-dd48c6ad217d">

<img width="861" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5e516693-61bc-4a22-bb45-1dd63d1c6235">

<img width="758" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/75cdee6e-6df2-45fb-ad31-7d3b33863cd2">


## Next Steps
